[MUSIC]
So far, we've talked about
two sources of experience.
The environment and the model.
In direct RL, the agent learns
from experience generated by
interacting with the world like in
Q-learning, but the agent can also
generate simulate experience from
the model and use it for planning.
Today, we will talk about one
way to combine direct RL and
planning called Dyna.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to understand how
simulate experience from the model differs
from interacting with the environment.
You will also understand how the Dyna
architecture mixes direct RL updates and
planning updates.
We've seen Q-learning which performs
updates using environment experience.
Q-planning on the other hand performs
updates using simulated
experience from the model.
We can combine these two ideas
through the Dyna architecture.
First, we will describe
the main components of Dyna.
We have the usual environment and policy.
They generate a stream of experience.
We use this experience to
perform direct RL updates.
To do planning, we need a model.
The model has to come from somewhere.
The environment experience can
be used to learn the model.
This model will be used to
generate model experience.
In addition, we want to control how the
model generates this simulated experience,
what states the agent will plan from.
We call this process search control.
Planning updates are performed using
the experience generated by the model.
Let's look at a cartoon of how Dyna works.
Here we have a simple maze and
a robot trying to find its way out.
It's a discounted problem.
The robot receives a reward of plus
1 at the goal and 0, otherwise.
As usual,
the robot starts out knowing nothing.
It randomly traverses the maze until it
stumbles on the goal for the first time.
A robot only updates one
action value depicted in blue.
This was the only transition
that generated nonzero reward.
This update is done by direct RL.
Dyna makes use of all
the experience generated during
the first episode to learn
a model the environment.
The yellow states correspond to states
visited during the first episode.
The robot didn't visit all of them,
but it visited most of them.
Dyna performs planning on every time step.
However, planning has no impact on
the policy during the first episode
even though the model became
more accurate on each time step.
After the first episode completes,
planning can really shine.
In our cartoon,
the thought bubble represents planning
happening in the robot's mind.
The grid world in the bubble represents
the robots model of the world.
The yellow states represent where
the model knows what will happen next.
The model knows about all the states the
robot visited during the first episode.
Let's look what happens if we run
the planning loop at the beginning
of the second episode.
Dyna can simulate transitions from any of
the state action pairs the agent visited
during the first episode.
In this case, there are a lot of them.
Planning replays the simulated transitions
as if they happened in the real world.
Each step of planning simply applies
the Q-learning update to a simulated
transition and updates the value function.
With enough planning steps, the agent
can approve the policy in all the states
visited during the first episode.
Here, planning produce
a pretty good policy.
The policy is not perfect.
Can you see where take suboptimal actions?
The policy is still random in states
that were not visited before.
We represent these dates for the policy
was not updated with white squares.
Let's see how the plan policy
works in the real world.
The robot now knows how to get to
the goal quickly after just one episode.
In comparison, Q-learning require many
episodes to achieve similar performance.
Dyna does more computation per step, but
uses limited experience more efficiently.
Remember, this is only a cartoon.
Dyna would act slightly
differently than shown here.
The robot would continue exploring and
planning on each step
of the second episode.
So the policy would take random
actions once in a while and
the policy would continue to change,
and improve due to planning.
We will discuss how to
implement Dyna the next time.
In this video, we introduced the Dyna
architecture which uses direct RL and
planning updates to learn from both
environment and model experience.
That's all for this video.
I hope you plan on coming back next time.